**Mini-project: general info**

- Contributes to 60% to the final assessment
- Group project (2-3 people)
- Form your group within 1 week
- Project deadline: April 26 (week 13)
- Grading:
  - we give an overall grade, you decide the weighting
  - individual grade = overall grade × group size × contribution percentage
  - need to provide a contribution statement (in tech report) to justify the weighting
  - e.g., if overall grade is 70, A and B contributed equally (i.e., each 50%), A gets 70x2x50%=70, B gets 70x2x50%=70
  - e.g., if overall grade is 70, A did 60% and B did 40%, then A gets 70x2x60%=84, B gets 70x2x40%=56

---

**Mini-project: submission**

- **Demo (10%)**
  - you run the demo and explain the designs and workflow, we do Q&A
  - keep it within 10 mins
- **Tech report (50%)**
  - describe in detail each component of your system, including datasets, model design, model training, and model evaluation (where applicable)
  - declare contributions and provide the weighting (e.g., A=50%, B=50%)
  - no more than 4 pages, double column
  - must use the provided latex template, only submit a pdf
- **Source code (40%)**
  - jupyter notebooks (containing results of training, evaluation, and visualization)
  - python files (essential functions)

---

**Mini-project: assessment criteria**

1. Clear understanding of the project objectives
2. Proper use of reference datasets and any additional data sources
3. Data preprocessing and augmentation techniques used
4. Correctness and efficiency of the algorithms and models developed
5. Innovation in approach and use of technology
6. Comprehensive testing of the system or models
7. Use of appropriate metrics for evaluation
8. Analysis and discussion of results and limitations
9. Evidence of effective collaboration
10. Clarity and organization of the demo and ability to answer questions

---

**Mini-project: FAQ**

- Do all members need to submit the files? A: Yes. Pdf + code in a zip file.
- Do all group members need to participate in demo? A: Up to you. The demo can be presented by either one member or multiple members as long as it is clear and comprehensive.
- Can I use pre-trained models? A: Only foundation models like CLIP, LLM, and Stable Diffusion. Need to train your own models like image classifiers, pose estimation models, etc.
- Can I add new functions/ideas? A: Yes, of course! We encourage innovation.
- When is the deadline for submitting the code and report? A: End of last class (on April 26). A 5% penalty will be given to late submission. Non-negotiable.


  **Project 2: SmartRecipe**

- **Overview**
  - SmartRecipe is a revolutionary app that simplifies cooking by using advanced image recognition to identify ingredients from user photos. More than just a recipe finder, it suggests personalized dishes based on available ingredients and provides detailed nutritional insights. With SmartRecipe, meal preparation becomes effortless, food waste is reduced, and users are empowered to make smart, delicious, and healthy culinary choices.

- **Objectives**
  - Food Ingredient Identification: Train a multi-label image classification model that can recognize multiple ingredients present in the given image. Reference Datasets: MAFood121, Foodseg103
  - Recipe Recommendation System: Fine-tune an LLM to learn recipe recommendations. The model should analyze the input ingredients and suggest multiple feasible recipes, providing detailed information on ingredient quantities and preparation methods. Reference Dataset: Food Recipe
  - Nutrient Analysis System: Based on the variety of ingredients in the recipe, associate their nutritional content with the recipe information. When creating the training data for recipes recommendation, this nutritional information can be integrated to provide a more comprehensive recommendation. Reference Dataset: Product Database

---
